All right here we have an electron is initially moving to the right when it enters a uniform field directed
upward as shown.
Which trajectory will the electron follow in the field.
Okay.
Well again let's consider this electric field.
What I like to do when somebody presents me with an electric field like this if it's going up I know
that electric field goes from positive toward negative right.
So then I have an electron while the electron is going to be repelled by all of these negative charges
and it's going to be attracted by each one of those.
So guess what it's going to do it's certainly not going to go up here and it's not going to go straight
it has to go down right.
So Z really has to be the correct answer.
The other way to answer this would be just to consider this right.
Remember the Force is the charge multiplied by the field if since the charge is negative right.
We've got to remember this is an electron here.
If we have an electron with a negative charge it means that the force is always in the opposite direction
right.
So this guy here is up if the charge is negative it means that the force is going to be down.
Okay.
And if you have a downward force going to follow this one it's the only trajectory that's pointing down.
All right.
So these are the correct answer.
Nice and easy one.
All right.
Here we have number six.
The figure shows two unequal charges.
OK.
We have positive and we have a negative over here.
The charge this guy here is greater magnitude than the positive charge.
That's why it's kind of bigger here.
Point X is midway between the charges in what section will there be a point where the resulting electric
field in this case the left field e is going to be zero.
Okay.
Well let's consider each one separately.
All right let's make this one red and make this one blue in the total electric field is you have to
add them as vectors so let's draw the field everywhere so let's draw the first the electric field produced
by this positive charge it should point away from it.
Right.
So in all of these different sections over here as I get farther away the fields should be getting smaller.
The field is closest when the field is bigger when I am close to the charge here it's getting smaller
and here it's getting smaller.
That's the field produced by the positive charge.
What about the negative one the field produced by the negative should point toward it.
OK.
So here it should be pretty big should be pretty big when I'm close to it.
And then as I get farther away should start getting smaller OK.
Something like this.
This is the field produced by this negative charge.
So one thing we notice here is that between both of them we have both electric fields that add up in
the same direction.
Right.
So you're always going to have a net electric field here for both of those choices.
So we definitely can't be w x or x y can't be w x or x y.
So we're left with kind of two places it's either going to be somewhere along this section y z or a
long VW.
All right.
So now what you have to do is you have to look at the magnitude.
The key to this problem is that this one is always going to be a bigger electric field especially in
this section over here right in this section the blue line is always going to be bigger because guess
what.
It's closer.
All right.
So you're always going to have this one that the field produced by the negative Q is always going to
be bigger than not one.
So the net in this section although it's going to be smaller it's always going to be pointing to the
left toward the negative charge.
It's really only in this section over here where you could have cancellation.
All right fields are going to cancel out here because again you're closer to the small positive charge.
So that produces a field and you end up being farther from the negative.
However that charge is bigger.
Right.
If you remember the field produced by this guy here again just the magnitude would be k uppercase Q
divided by our squared.
So although this is bigger this guy here is also bigger.
So there is the possibility that you could cancel out the electric field.
It'll be somewhere in this space right here right.
So they're really the only correct answer has to be this VW segment.
All right.
So hopefully you understand that all right problem seven looks like this the figure here shows electric
field lines produced by two small charges p and q consider the following statements The first statement
says the charge on P is smaller than the charge on Q and the second statement says the electrostatic
force on P is smaller than the electrostatic force on Q All right which of the above statements are
true.
OK.
So is the first one true and how would we argue it is the charge on P smaller.
So first of all they're both positive right they're both positive and how do I know that I know that
because the field lines point away from both of those charges.
So that is really how I know they're both positive.
Let me write that down field lines point away all right.
So the next scene how do I know which one is bigger and which one is smaller is p smaller.
Yes.
So the charge on P I mean just charge and call it Kewpie has to be smaller than the charge on Q and
how do I know that there are fewer field lines fewer field lines indicate that the charge is going to
be smaller on that one.
OK if I have a lot of field lines it tells me that the magnitude of the electric field in this region
is big compared to the electric field in this region because I have more field lines going through it.
So definitely the first one is true.
All right how about the second statement.
The electrostatic force on P is smaller.
Well what do we know about the force.
The force is given by cool arms law.
We know there's going to be a force acting like this and there's going to be an equal and opposite force
right.
When you write the force it's only one right it'll be the charge on P it be the charge on Q and divided
by the distance squared but that's it.
That means on this guy there is a force acting like this.
And on this guy there's a force acting like this.
These forces are equal and opposite.
Okay so this one here is actually false.
So really it's only the first statement that is true.
So for this one A is the correct answer.
Problem 8 we say a solid aluminum cube rests on a wooden table in a region where there is a uniform
electric feel and it's directed straight upward.
All right.
What can we say concerning the charges on the top surface of the Cube.
Okay.
Kind of a good problem.
Here we go here's our table.
Let me draw this cube over here.
Let's draw.
Maybe this color okay.
And it's a conductor right.
Because we know it's aluminum.
What else.
Oh there's an electric field that's directed straight up.
So the electric field is produced by something else.
Let me just draw it straight up that's the electric field.
Now again they're asking what's going on with the top surface here.
So what's gonna happen here to the top surface.
Well what happens to the free electrons of this cube where are they going to go again you what you could
do is you could picture what produces this kind of electric field it's something that would be positively
charged down here and maybe some negative charges somewhere up here so the electrons that are on this
piece of aluminum the free ones any way they want to go toward the positive ones right.
So that will leave that the top surface has to be positively charged because the electrons of this aluminum
are gonna go in the down on the bottom surface.
So the top surface at the end has to be positively charged.
Okay.
So for number eight really the top surfaces positively charge.
That's choice a.